CHANGES.md for Chapel 2.1 (#25260)
chapel-lang/chapel: CHANGES.md

Compiler Flags
--------------
* removed the deprecated `--llvm` flag in favor of `--target-compiler=llvm`

Generated Executable Flags
--------------------------
* added a new `--gpus-per-node` flag for SLURM-based launchers

Error Messages / Semantic Checks
--------------------------------
* improved errors when modifying `const` shadow variables in nested `forall`s
* added an error message for calling `export proc`s with wrong number of args
* improved error message for improper uses of `_`, the 'throwaway' variable
* added an error when using `var` intents with `foreach` loops
* added warnings for copy-initing maps/sets/lists with mismatched `parSafe`s  
  (see https://chapel-lang.org/docs/2.1/modules/standard/Map.html#Map.warnForMapParsafeMismatch,  
       https://chapel-lang.org/docs/2.1/modules/standard/Set.html#Set.warnForSetParsafeMismatch,  
   and https://chapel-lang.org/docs/2.1/modules/standard/List.html#List.warnForListParsafeMismatch)

Launchers
---------
* updated the `pbs-gasnetrun_ibv` launcher to request exclusive access to nodes

Runtime Library Changes
-----------------------
* updated the runtime to use the GASNet-EX API by default for `CHPL_COMM=gasnet`

> * updated GASNet to use the same copy of `hwloc` as Chapel does

Reviewer: Suggest rewording this slightly, to reflect the fact that previously Chapel was force-disabling GASNet's hwloc support

```suggestion
* enable GASNet use of `hwloc`, with the same copy as Chapel
```

Author: Thanks for clarifying.  I took a slightly different wording, but hopefully captured the change accurately:

```
* enabled GASNet's `hwloc` support, using the same copy of `hwloc` as Chapel
```

* added support for transparent huge pages with OFI  
  (see https://chapel-lang.org/docs/2.1/platforms/libfabric.html#transparent-hugepages)
* ensured that co-locales respect `CHPL_RT_MAX_HEAP_SIZE` 
  (see https://chapel-lang.org/docs/2.1/platforms/libfabric.html#memory-registration-and-the-heap)

> * added the ability to enable shared-memory bypass when using 'gasnet/ofi'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* added the ability to enable shared-memory bypass when using 'gasnet/ibv'
```

> * added the ability to use a dedicated core for progress threads with 'gasnet'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* added the ability to use a dedicated core for progress threads with 'gasnet'
* added the ability to enable a blocking send thread for `gasnet/ibv`
```

Author: Thanks!
